---
published: false
title: "Direct download from Azure Blob storage using Content-Disposition header to set the filename"
tags:
  - Azure

---

For an application I m building, I store attachments on Azure in blob storage. This is a relative cheap and scaleble solution for files that need to be retrieved again by others.

I have set the container to be a public one and by generating random file names, I have some obfuscation so that iterating over them become hard, but the url is still sharable. This also allows me to avoid name collisions as it is user input where I have no saying in what they upload.

But when you now want to retrieve the file, you get that random file name and not the original one it was uploaded with.

I can download the file on my server first and then return it with a correct name, but this will bring overload to my system. I rather have people directly hit the Azure infrastructure.

Luckily you can set the `content-disposition` header. This tells the client what to do with the file, like showing it inline or downloading it, and what the filename needs to be. This property is in for some years, so you can set this directly using the SDK when you create a file:

```csharp
  var blobName = $"{cId}/{rId}/{Guid.NewGuid():N}.{extension}";
  
  BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient(blobName);

  // Upload a byte[] to a blob
  await blobClient.UploadAsync(
      new MemoryStream(attachmentContent),
      new BlobHttpHeaders
      {
          ContentType = attachmentType,
          ContentDisposition = $"attachment; filename=\"{attachmentName}\""
      });

 string downloadUrl = blobClient.Uri.AbsoluteUri;

```

However, when I use the public url, I still got the long GUID like name back and the `content-disposition` header was missing. It appears that you need to specify the `x-ms-version: 2019-12-12` header as well. This is a bit annoying to set on a GET request in a browser, so we need to force the storage account to always use this version. 

There is no easy dropdown in the portal and as it is a once off action, you can use the Cloud Shell (with Powershell) to do this:

```powershell
$ctx = New-AzureStorageContext -StorageAccountName name-of-storageaccount -StorageAccountKey your-access-key
Update-AzureStorageServiceProperty -ServiceType Blob -DefaultServiceVersion 2019-12-12 -Context $ctx
```

When you now fetch the file using the public url, you get the header included and as such the correct filename. 